Subscription: Agreement with microsoft to use Azure services and how you are going to pay for that.
We can move a subscription from one tenant to another tenant.
In Subscriptions click on change directory to switch the tenant.

Cost Analysis shows the total spending on azure resources.
We can see Accumulated cost, forecast cost and locationwise cost etc.

Cost alerts allow you to setup alerts to email when certain thresholds.

Advisor recommendations: Runs constantly on your account and makes recommendations across number of categories and
Cost is one of them.

Resource Locks:
Helps to avoid accidental deletion, modification and changes in resource groups. 
Two types: Read-Only and Delete.
If set to read-only it provides lock on any type of modifications and
If set to delete lock it provides lock on deleting the resources and resource group.


Azure Policy:
Azure Policy helps to enforce organizational standards and to assess compliance at-scale.
Common use cases for Azure Policy include implementing governance for resource consistency, regulatory compliance, security, cost, and management
Define policies e.g. to have smaller SKUs for VM to reduce cost
e.g. Geo-Redundant storage should be enabled for Storage Accounts in production resource group then
we can apply this policy.

Geo-redundant storage (GRS) is a feature of Azure Storage that provides durability and disaster protection for your data by replicating it to a secondary region that is hundreds of miles away from the primary region.

tags: key values pairs that enable you to categorize resources and view consolidated billing by applying the same tag to multiple resources and resource groups.
We can run reports to see cost of tagged resources based on tags in cost analysis.

Move Resources:
No need to delete resources and recreate them in order to reorganize resources.
Inside resource group select resources that we want ot move and Click on Move button which gives three options
which are 1. Move to another resource group 2. Move to another subscription 3. Move to another region.

Steps to create resource group and assign policy using Powershell:
1. New-AzResourceGroup -Name 'Staging_VMs' -Location 'Central US' 
2. $rg = Get-AzResourceGroup -Name 'Staging_VMs' -Location 'Central US' 
3.  $definition = Get-AzPolicyDefinition -Id '/providers/Microsoft.Authorization/policyDefinitions/0a914e76-4921-4c19-b460-a2d36003525a'
4. New-AzPolicyAssignment -Scope $rg.ResourceId -PolicyDefinition $definition -Name 'RGLocationMatch' -DisplayName `{Resource group matches resources location`}


Subscriptions and Management Groups:
Different subscriptions for different credit card.
Management group is basically a organization structure it is a folder that
contains other management groups or subscriptions.
Like resource group which manages resources 
this management group manages permissions of subscriptions.
